
pip install nltk

import nltk
nltk.download('punkt')
nltk.download('averaged_perceptron_tagger')
nltk.download('maxent_ne_chunker')
nltk.download('words')

from nltk import word_tokenize, pos_tag, ne_chunk

text = "Barack Obama was the 44th President of the United States."
tokens = word_tokenize(text)
tags = pos_tag(tokens)
tree = ne_chunk(tags)
print(tree)


nltk.download('maxent_ne_chunker')
nltk.download('words')

text = "Apple Inc. is a technology company based in Cupertino, California."
tokens = word_tokenize(text)
pos_tags = pos_tag(tokens)


text = "Barack Obama was the 44th President of the United States."
tokens = word_tokenize(text)
tags = pos_tag(tokens)
chunked = ne_chunk(tags)

print(chunked)
print("POS tagged text:")
print(pos_tags)
print("text with named entities:")
print(chunked)



Experiment No. 4

POS Tagging Chunking.

Ain:

The aim of this practical is to implement and understand POS tagging and chunking techniques far natural language processing tasks.

Lab Objectives:

Apply knowledge of parts of speech, understand the concept of chunking, and get familiar with the basic chunk tagset.

Theory:

Part-of-Speech (POS) Tagging:

Part-of-speech Lagging, often abbreviated as POS tagging, is a fundamental task in natural language processing. It involves assigning grammatical categories (such as nouns, verbs, adjectives, etc.) to every word in a given text. This is crucial for understanding the syntactic structure of a sentence and extracting meaning from it.

Details of POS tagging:

What is POS Tagging?

POS Lagging is the process of automatically assigning a grammatical category (part of speech) to each word in a sentence. In the sentence "He runs quickly", POS tagging ing would label "He" as a pronoun, "runs" verb, and "quickly" as adverb.

Importance of POS Tagging:

Syntactic Analysis: POS tagging helps in understanding the grammatical structure of a sentence, which is crucial for more advanced NLP tasks like parsing. Disambiguation: It helps resolve ambiguities that arise from homonyms (words with the same spelling but different meanings) and polysemy (words with multiple meanings). Information Extraction: POS tags can be used to identify entities, and relationships, and extract useful information from text

Common POS Tags:

Noun (NN): Represents a person, place, thing, or idea.

Verb (VB): Describes an action or state of being. Adjective (JJ): Modifies or describes a noun.

Adverb (RB) Modifies or describes a verb, adjective, or other adverbs.

Pronoun (PRP): Takes the place of a noun (e.g., he, she, it). Preposition (IN): Shows a relationship between a noun/pronoun and other words in a sentence.

Conjunction (CC): Joins words, phrases, or clauses together.

Determiner (DT): Determines or limits a noun. Interjection (UH): Expresses strong feelings or emotions.

Lab Outcomes:

Apply knowledge of parts of speech, understand the concept of chunking, and get familiar with the

hasic chunk tagset.

Conclusions:

and chunking is crucial in In conclusion, the practical application of Part-of-Speech (POS) tagging and chunks natural language processing (NLP) and information extraction. These techniques play a pivotal role by accurately identifying and categorizing the grammatical components of a text, enabling machines to comprehend human language more effectively. POS tagging assigns linguistic labels to words, facilitating tasks like sentiment analysis. Chunking groups words into meaningful chunks, aiding in the extraction of relevant information and identification of syntactic structures.

Together, POS tagging and chunking enhance NLP NLP systems, contributing to advancements in language understanding and machine learning applications.
